Demo #3/README.md, before:

# Demo3 - SentimentAnalyzer

## Background

Reputational due diligence is a process of analyzing the reputation of an entity (either a person or an organization) and identifying any reputational risks associated with the entity. Traditionally, it is performed through a manual review and analysis of documents (e.g. news articles, legal documents and specialized publications) in which the entity of interest is mentioned. Such a manual process is cumbersome and time consuming.

We hereby present a solution, called _SentimentAnalyzer_, that automates the sentiment analysis of news articles. It can accept a collection of news articles and perform the following analysis on each article:
- measure its overall sentiment 
- extract all the noteworthy individuals mentioned in the article
- measure the sentiment of these individuals

The script then uploads the analysis results into a BigQuery table, which is in turn connected to a Data Studio dashboard that visualizes these results. 

![Architecture Diagram](SentimentAnalyzer_diagram.png "Architecture Diagram")


## Code

The development of the solution is presented in the notebook file [`SentimentAnalyzer.ipynb`](https://github.com/aliz-ai/ml-spec-2022/blob/demo3/demo3/SentimentAnalyzer.ipynb). 

This notebook contains the following steps:
- The creation of BigQuery table that will store the articles and the analysis results
- The import, description and EDA of the dataset
- The application of the core function `analyze_article` that applies the Natural Language API and performs sentiment analysis on a given article
- The uploading of the analysis results on the BigQuery table

Should you want to run the above steps from scratch, please run the [notebook](https://github.com/aliz-ai/ml-spec-2022/blob/demo3/demo3/SentimentAnalyzer.ipynb) from top to bottom after you've installed the dependencies listed in [`requirements.txt`](https://github.com/aliz-ai/ml-spec-2022/blob/demo3/demo3/requirements.txt).

The accompanying Data Studio dashboard, which visualizes the analysis results, can be found on the following [link](https://datastudio.google.com/u/0/reporting/9f62a4aa-3b5f-4716-b190-10be9a2b9bb2/page/0weuC).

Commit message:

Demo3 (#5)
* Initial commit - most of analysis done

* Cleaning + refactoring

* cleaning up

* Added README, further code cleanup

* Modified README

* moved readme

* Typo and cleanup

* Added links on README, added type hints on utils.py

* typo

* common folder name

* standardizing folder structure

Co-authored-by: meraldo.antonio@aliz.ai <meraldo.antonio@aliz.ai>
Co-authored-by: norbert.liki <norbert.liki@prudential.com.hk>

Demo #3/README.md, after:

# Demo3 - SentimentAnalyzer

## Background

Reputational due diligence is a process of analyzing the reputation of an entity (either a person or an organization) and identifying any reputational risks associated with the entity. Traditionally, it is performed through a manual review and analysis of documents (e.g. news articles, legal documents and specialized publications) in which the entity of interest is mentioned. Such a manual process is cumbersome and time consuming.

We hereby present a solution, called _SentimentAnalyzer_, that automates the sentiment analysis of news articles. It can accept a collection of news articles and perform the following analysis on each article:
- measure its overall sentiment 
- extract all the noteworthy individuals mentioned in the article
- measure the sentiment of these individuals

The script then uploads the analysis results into a BigQuery table, which is in turn connected to a Data Studio dashboard that visualizes these results. 

![Architecture Diagram](./imgs/SentimentAnalyzer_diagram.png "Architecture Diagram")


## Code

The development of the solution is presented in the notebook file [`SentimentAnalyzer.ipynb`](./notebooks/SentimentAnalyzer.ipynb). 

This notebook contains the following steps:
- The creation of BigQuery table that will store the articles and the analysis results
- The import, description and EDA of the dataset
- The application of the core function `analyze_article` that applies the Natural Language API and performs sentiment analysis on a given article
- The uploading of the analysis results on the BigQuery table

Should you want to run the above steps from scratch, please run the [notebook](./notebooks/SentimentAnalyzer.ipynb) from top to bottom after you've installed the source code with `pip install -e .`. 

The accompanying Data Studio dashboard, which visualizes the analysis results, can be found on the following [link](https://datastudio.google.com/u/0/reporting/9f62a4aa-3b5f-4716-b190-10be9a2b9bb2/page/0weuC).
